# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

A1. In console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

A2. In models/property.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

A3. Lines 13, 22, 31 - the save methods
    Line 33 - the delete method

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

A4. Because in the database, id is serial and unique. It auto-increments every time a new property is added to the database, so you don't want to set it when you instantiate it.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

A5. When we run the save method on the object, the SQL query returns the id which we then assign to the object 

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

A6. Because when we instantiate a 'Property' object we don't always have an id to provide to the constructor. We do if we are reading from the database, but if we are creating a new object to write to the database, we don't. Therefore this prevents the constructor trying to assign an id when an id is not present.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

A7. The class methods are when we are not working with a specific property instance, for example when we want to read from the database or when we want to perform an action on the whole database. 

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

A8. It returns an array of hashes. In the 'save' method we access the first element in the array using the index in square brackets, then the id property using the square brackets.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

A9. If we write out bare sql queries then it is possible to perform SQL injection attacks by replacing variables with additional SQL queries.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

A10. 'find_by_id' takes an id integer. This can be passed to the method from an instance of the Property class. 
'find_by_address' takes an address string.

Q11. What are their return values?

A11. They return an array of property hashes